# MODEL1006230019: Brown1997_PlasmaMelatoninLevels

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1006230019.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1006230019.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This a model from the article:  
**A mathematical model of diurnal variations in human plasma melatonin levels.**   
Brown EN, Choe Y, Shanahan TL, Czeisler CA. _Am J Physiol_ 1997 Mar;272(3 Pt
1):E506-16 [9124558](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9124558) ,  
**Abstract:**   
Studies in animals and humans suggest that the diurnal pattern in plasma
melatonin levels is due to the hormone's rates of synthesis, circulatory
infusion and clearance, circadian control of synthesis onset and offset,
environmental lighting conditions, and error in the melatonin immunoassay. A
two-dimensional linear differential equation model of the hormone is
formulated and is used to analyze plasma melatonin levels in 18 normal healthy
male subjects during a constant routine. Recently developed Bayesian
statistical procedures are used to incorporate correctly the magnitude of the
immunoassay error into the analysis. The estimated parameters [median (range)]
were clearance half-life of 23.67 (14.79-59.93) min, synthesis onset time of
2206 (1940-0029), synthesis offset time of 0621 (0246-0817), and maximum
N-acetyltransferase activity of 7.17(2.34-17.93) pmol x l(-1) x min(-1). All
were in good agreement with values from previous reports. The difference
between synthesis offset time and the phase of the core temperature minimum
was 1 h 15 min (-4 h 38 min-2 h 43 min). The correlation between synthesis
onset and the dim light melatonin onset was 0.93. Our model provides a more
physiologically plausible estimate of the melatonin synthesis onset time than
that given by the dim light melatonin onset and the first reliable means of
estimating the phase of synthesis offset. Our analysis shows that the
circadian and pharmacokinetics parameters of melatonin can be reliably
estimated from a single model.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Brown EN, Choe Y, Shanahan TL, Czeisler CA. (1997)
- version=1.0**
](http://models.cellml.org/exposure/9a9ac06137421a6f94e10ff4069c1cbb)  
The original CellML model was created by:  
**Catherine Lloyd**   
c.lloyd@auckland.ac.nz  
The University of Auckland  

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


